---
layout: njppBlog
title: Ohhhhh you said the F worrrrddd!!!
author: Tony
tags: 
onMozilla: false
onMedium: false
externalURL: 
excerpt: It's very funny (to me anyway) that I came out of college decrying research, it "ruined design," and a few years later my love for research informed design pushed me back into college to learn more about it.
---

# Ohhhhh you said the F worrrrddd!!!

It's very funny (to me anyway) that I came out of college decrying research, it "ruined design," and a few years later my love for research informed design pushed me back into college to learn more about it. It's also funny (probably still just to me) that I continue to run into these two seemingly opposed design camps all the time, the pro and anti research designers. I'm among friends in one, and inevitably find myself defending the dreaded F\*\*cus Gr\*\*p in the other. It's like a bad word in a lot of circles, f\*\*cus gr\*\*p, and as I always end up explaining, "it's because people don't run the dreaded f\*\*cus gr\*\*p right." They don't ask the participants the right questions. They use it to answer the wrong kind of research questions. They blindly follow the majority opinion as if it was handed down on stone tablets. Bottom line, they fuck it up. Worse yet, this is the only research method a lot of designers, including fresh out of design school me, know. At the very least the only one they think of when someone says "research." 

## Research isn't a bad word for designers (even f\*\*cus gr\*\*p)

This is the basic argument I find myself making when in the company of the anti-research designers. I'm a designer, not a researcher. I have a heavy-weight, framed piece of paper that says just that, and in December \[2011\] I'll have two. (This is the only "trust me, I'm a doctor" style statement you're going to get from me, I promise.) As a designer, research is just another tool in my toolbox for solving design problems. It's just like my sketchbook, photoshop, or illustrator. Research does NOT dictate design decisions, it informs them. This is something I usually have to repeat, so I will in an obnoxious type treatment to make it stand out:

__RESEARCH DOES <span style="text-decoration: underline;"> NOT </span> DICTATE DESIGN DECISIONS, IT INFORMS THEM.__  

(Sorry, it wouldn't let me make it blink too.) If you're a designer and you think back to your design classes, you'll likely remember doing some kind of asking around or looking at what other people had already done in that space for every project you did. That's research. AND it isn't a f\*\*cus gr\*\*p. (It's likely a competitive analysis or an unstructured individual interview, for the researchers in the audience keeping track.) Your research didn't totally take away all your choices as a designer, and you probably didn't completely change your initial gut feelings based on it. It didn't dictate your design. But it did inform you... and you might have modified some of your initial assumptions... and you may have abandoned bad ideas if they proved to be bad, or had already done, or whatever you found. It may have even given you an idea because you saw something new and it sparked something awesome in your crazy designer brain. This is why good research, used correctly is magical.  

## Let's talk about the damn f\*\*cus gr\*\*p for a minute
_(Warning: this is a rant, you have been warned.)_ 
Most people (especially in advertising) ruin focus groups. This is not an "ivory tower" opinion. This is my on the ground, in the trenches throwing grenades, practitioner's opinion. They're not looking for additional information to inform the design, they're looking for "truth." Worse yet, they're not just looking for "a truth", they're looking for "The Truth," a totally generalizable (ecologically valid for you researches still keeping track) truth. One that describes everyone like their group everywhere. A group that is usually structured to represent everyone on the planet. So they can confirm what they already have by using this "The Truth" as evidence. Sorry, a f\*\*cus gr\*\*p is the wrong test for finding "The Truth." (if it can in-fact be found at all.) It's a qualitative test that is at best going to give you an idea of your specific group's opinions, if and only if you: recruit the right group, ignore the possibility of group think and the follow the leader mentality in groups like this, AND don't have one guy who does 80% of the talking for the whole group. At best you're going to be able to say "we showed it to 10 people and 2 of them told us all these things." F\*\*cus gr\*\*ps are not generalizable, period! The are not "The Truth," and to use them as such is foolish, and you should feel sorry for those people because they're likely going to lose a lot of money.

If you're going to hate the f\*\*cus gr\*\*p , hate it for these reasons.  Don't hate it because "research kills creativity." it doesn't, it focuses creativity, and gives you new jumping off points if it's done well.

## Design is not art, deal with it.

Here is the other argument that is used to try and defend the anti-research designer position: Design is art. This is a horse that's been beaten to death, and now I'm usually one of the people holding a bat. *__Design is not art.__* It can be objectively evaluated because the whole goal of design is problem solving. The goal of Art is expressing the ideas, emotion and opinions of the artist. You can't do that wrong. That's what makes it art. You can't look at art and realistically say, "The artist totally failed to express in this piece." You can, however, look at a design reasonably say, "This piece fails to capture the attributes of our brand," or "This product is hard to use and it's even harder to look at," or even "Why would you design a shirt with no neck hole, no one can wear this!" Design can be wrong. The confusing part is that there are usually many solutions to the same design problem, and all of them are shades of correct, but the wrong ones are still wrong. 

There is absolutely an art to design, and great design often does the things art does too, but design is not art. It's design. Even when it conveys emotion. Even when it conveys opinion. Design is concerned with solving a problem that most likely has multiple solutions, and this is why research is such a great tool. It can help you sift through those worse solutions, that are still technically right, to find the great ones. Why wouldn't you want something to help you sift through an endless pile of hay to find the five needles you're looking for?

## So what...?

Research is your friend, my dear fellow designers. It can lead you to new ideas, better ideas, by pointing to the right path in the tangled map of options we have; and if it's done well that's all it will do. Research can't ever substitute the thoughtful work of a good designer, because good research isn't creative. To quote Dr. David Evans of Psycster research (one of my graduate school instructors):

>A research study by it’s very nature is a cheap, fast proxy to reality.

It's a peak out the window. A designer takes all the information she has about a problem, combines it with everything else she knows and turns it into a solution. Well done research is just one more thing the designer gets to know and use. If you want to be an anti-research designer, why not be an anti-bad research designer?